hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the 2015 13
inch retina MacBook Pro and like every
other year Apple just did a speck bump
this year just to refresh it but they
also added a trackpad to it a new force
touch trackpad so we'll get into that so
I actually have two of them here
the base model which comes in at 1300
bucks and the fastest one that they
offer which comes in at 2000 bucks and
yeah let's get right to the review Apple
always packs up their stuff nicely when
you open the lid the notebook is sitting
there and underneath is the AC adapter
so the two models I have are the base
model which is a 2.7 gigahertz i5 eight
gigs of RAM and 128 gig SSD and their
second notebook which is their top-end
one is a 3.1 gigahertz i-5 16 gigs of
ram and a 512 gigas SD both of these are
Broadwell CPUs and they're both 2 core
the top of the notebook is aluminum and
as always that Apple logo lights up when
you lift up the screen the bottom of the
notebook is the same aluminum finish
intake vents on the left and right and
the speaker's also project sound through
these and there's rubber feet that
aren't very grippy but they just kind of
protect the bottom from being scratched
on the left side we have a spot for the
MagSafe 2 - Thunderbolt 2 ports that can
be used for menu display a USB 3 a
headphone jack and two microphone holes
and on the right side we have an SD card
slot an HDMI jack and another USB 3 and
if you've never owned a macbook before
just keep in mind that your SD cards are
going to jut out quite a bit when you
put them in so you don't want to leave
them in there during transportation so
you can connect up to 2 4k displays but
if you want to get 60 Hertz you got to
use the mini DisplayPort
if you use the HDMI you're only going to
get 30 Hertz for 4k the keyboards and
MacBooks are always great and this one's
no exception backlighting is good the
travel is good and it always feel
spacious I've always been very partial
to their keyboards and new for this year
is the force touch trackpad so instead
of a button underneath their traditional
and glass trackpad the forced touch uses
pressure sensors underneath the glass
that detects how hard you're pressing
and when you've press hard enough
there's a tiny little motor there that
vibrates to let you know that you've
clicked Apple has done a great job with
this because the vibration actually
feels just like a regular click so
there's no button that you're actually
clicking it just simulates what it feels
like when a button is clicked and the
forced touch also gives you a whole
bunch of options and feature
so the first thing I noticed on our
traditional trackpad when you press near
the top of the trackpad like close to
the keyboard it becomes harder to press
just because of the way that's mounted
it's kind of like a hinge there right
but on the new force touch trackpad you
can click anywhere you want on the
trackpad and I'll always register a
click you can also hear the difference
in sound or traditional trackpad is a
little bit louder but in terms of how it
feels it's actually really similar so on
the old trackpad when you press it down
it squishes down a little bit to hit a
button underneath but on the new force
touch trackpad it doesn't press down
nearly as much but it does still move
just to measure how hard you're pressing
in case you were wondering like I was
the new force touch trackpad can detect
clicks just as quickly as the old one I
don't know when you would ever want to
click this fast but just know that you
can so in the settings you can adjust
the amount of pressure you need to
activate a click so when you have a
higher setting for click pressure you
actually have a ladder click as well as
a more tactile click so if you press
enough that'll register as a click but
if you press even harder and a register
as something called a force click so
there are a lot of things you can do
with the force click such as renaming
things previewing things finding
definitions for words you can even force
click dates or times and set up an event
in the calendar and because this new
trackpad has pressure sensitivity and
some apps you can do some really
primitive drawings and your signature
can now have some stroke thickness I
think over time developers will be able
to make better use of the force clicking
and pressure sensitivity but all of
these things could be done with keyboard
shortcuts which I think was even faster
than using a force click but there are
some things like previewing websites in
Safari you would have to have gone to an
addon like hover see or hover zoom but
in general I don't think it's that
useful I definitely prefer it over a
regular trackpad but the user experience
remains pretty similar it has the same
IPS displays before 2560 by 1600 good
contrast
it has accurate colors it's always a
good time with these MacBook screens and
you can dim it down completely if you
need to hide what you're doing and if
you notice there's a reflection there I
think it's a combination of the
anti-reflective coating as well as the
screen brightness so even though these
are glossy screens the reflections
aren't as noticeable
speakers are unchanged they're pretty
loud this is what they sounded
okay fan noise when this thing's idle
it's silent Tony decibels standard stuff
now remember I have two of them here the
2.7 gigahertz has a reasonably loud fan
when it kicks in 35 decibels
but the 3.1 gigahertz model is
significantly louder it comes in at
almost 40 decibels when you hear them
side by side the difference is really
noticeable and so if we look at the
thermals we'll see why so I have the
floor thermal camera again for this on
the left is the 2.7 gigahertz base model
and on the right is the 3.1 gigahertz
top-end model now I never would have
noticed this without a thermal camera
but the exhaust vent seems to only be on
the right-hand side but as you can see
the 3.1 gigahertz model is a bit hotter
than the base model which is probably
why the fan is so much louder granted
these fans don't come on often but it is
something to keep in mind if you really
don't like fan noise okay so drive
speeds both of these are on PCI Express
SSDs which are super fast to begin with
on the Left we have the 2.7 gigahertz
base model and on the right we have the
3.1 gigahertz model with a 512 gig
now both of the read speeds are super
fast at like 12 1,300 but if you look at
the write speeds the 512 gig drive is
over double the speed of the base model
now both of these are incredibly fast
drives it is nice to have fast drives
but I'm not sure when you would need
drive speeds like this on this notebook
because even if your workflow can
utilize drive speeds like this the rest
of this notebook is going to bottleneck
your workflow something fierce so I
don't think it's important to upgrade
your storage just for the drive speed
near some Geekbench benchmarks comparing
two notebooks from this generation and
the base model from mid 2014 so as
expected everything's just a little bit
faster
let's talk battery life so this year
it's running abroad well CPU which is
supposed to be a little bit more energy
efficient than previous generation but
for whatever reason I'm getting almost
the exact same battery life as last
year's models so the advertised 10 hours
for regular use and I mean that's just
web use and 12 hours for watching movies
off of iTunes and I'm getting eight and
a half hours of regular web use and
that's with screen at almost full
brightness and I'm getting just under
nine hours for watching movies off the
drive so again I'm not sure if this is
just my usage pattern is a little
different from it was last year when I
was testing this model or maybe I'm just
you know doing something wrong but I did
run down the battery three times over
the past week just to kind of test this
out now there is something that's kind
of interesting normally when I do gaming
performance on a notebook I do it all on
battery so I plug charge it up to full I
plug in my mouse and I crank up screen
brightness and I just go to town on this
thing now for whatever reason this
notebook
both of them have incredibly long
battery life when you're playing games
and I have my theories but let me just
explain so normally on every other
notebook I've ever tested
I'm normally getting like an hour
sometimes a little bit less sometimes
slightly more when I'm playing games and
that's just the standard because you're
running some fairly intensive stuff and
battery just drains quickly but I got
over two and a half hours on both of
these notebooks when I was playing games
and the weird thing is okay my theory is
that because this thing is relatively
underpowered like the GPU the fan never
comes on it literally literally never
came on once on both of these notebooks
when I was playing computer games so I
was playing here to the storm and I
played a little bit of counter-strike
and the fan never came on not even once
so maybe that's why the battery life is
extended the way it is I'm not sure but
in any case that's cool stuff and of
course I played a lot of games on this
thing because I love video games so
these things are running integrated
graphics which is the intel 6100 it's
better than i expected but it's not
great so right off the bat you can't
play at native Reds you're going to get
like 10 15 frames per second now at
1080p for dota 2 and heroes of the storm
you're going to get about 30 frames per
second at high settings its playable but
it's not buttery so when you drop this
down to low graphics settings so you're
getting about 40 maybe 50 frames per
second I think at that point it's very
playable but if you're competitive and
you need higher frame rates you're gonna
have to go into lower resolutions but I
found the gaming to be reasonable at
1080p and I also found gaming
performance to be very similar between
the two notebooks at best the 3.1
gigahertz model with 16 gigs of ram was
only getting about five more frames per
second on average nothing crazy
okay so some final thoughts I think the
best value for this notebook lies in the
base model for 1,300 bucks for the tech
you're getting for the specs you're
getting I think it's a good buy if
you're a Mac user if you've never used
Mac before I don't think there is any
features in this generation that should
make you know a non MacBook owner run
out immediately to get one I think that
everything has been a spec bump it's a
vanilla spec bump but vanilla is pretty
nice but if you're expecting a really
big increase in performance or battery
life or if you're hoping that maybe the
trackpad is going to give you a brand
new user experience I think you might be
disappointed it's a very cool trackpad I
think it's a step in the right direction
but it's definitely not a game changer
but yeah I hope you guys liked the
review if you liked it give me some
thumbs and if you loved it give me some
subs and I'm also pretty close to 2,000
subs I will be doing a giveaway when I
hit 2000 I'm trying to get some pretty
cool stuff for you guys but I'm still
working on it
but yeah it's been nice I'll see you
guys next time